

Simona Jankowski welcomed everyone to NVIDIA's third quarter earnings call. Colette Kress, executive vice president and chief financial officer, reported that revenue was $5.93 billion, down 12% sequentially and down 17% year on year. Data center revenue of $3.83 billion was up 1% sequentially and 31% year-on-year due to leading U.S. cloud providers and a broadening set of consumer Internet companies. Gaming revenue of $1.57 billion was down 23% sequentially and down 51% from a year ago due to lower sell-in to partners to help align channel inventory levels. RTX 4090 and 4080 GPUs feature DL

Colette Kress, NVIDIA's CFO, indicated that gaming sell-through in Q3 was relatively solid despite the challenges posed by China lockdowns. She expects stronger end demand as we enter into Q4, driven by the upcoming holidays and the continuation of AI adoption. Jen-Hsun Huang, NVIDIA's CEO, noted that their data center business is indexed to two fundamental dynamics: general purpose computing no longer scaling and the need for accelerated computing to achieve necessary levels of cost efficiency, scale, and energy efficiency.

NVIDIA is seeing surging demand in some very important sectors of AI, such as deep recommender systems, large language models, and generative AI. NVIDIA has been partnering with cloud providers to make its software stack available in the cloud, which allows customers to engage with NVIDIA's platform more quickly. The company also took an inventory charge of $702 million due to a change in expected demand for data centers in China.

Jen-Hsun, I wanted to ask you about the data center business. You talked about the strong growth in the quarter and the strength of the AI market. Can you talk a little bit more about what you're seeing out there? Is it broad-based across different types of workloads? Are you seeing any particular strength in certain areas? And then, as a follow-up, can you just talk a little bit more about the inventory charge that Colette mentioned? What drove that?

Jen-Hsun Huang -- President and Chief Executive Officer

Yes. So let me start with the first part of your question, which is related to the data center business. We are changing the way we report our data center business to provide more granularity and better insight into the demand from hyperscalers, cloud service providers, and enterprise customers. We will continue to provide total revenue for our data center business, but we believe this new approach will give investors a better understanding of the trends in our business. NVIDIA reported strong Q4 2021 earnings, driven by strong demand for its GPUs and other products. CEO Jen-Hsun Huang discussed the company's success in the gaming, data center, and automotive markets, as well as its new platforms such as RTX and Hopper. CFO Colette Kress discussed supply constraints and stock-based compensation.